README.md, before:

# flag-algebra

A generic implementation of
[flag algebras](http://people.cs.uchicago.edu/~razborov/files/flag.pdf).

Flag algebras is a framework used to produce computer-assisted proofs of some inequalities in combinatorics, relying on Semi-Definite Programming.

## Example

```rust
// Proving that in any graph, at least 1/4 of the triples
// are triangles or independent sets.
extern crate flag_algebra;

use flag_algebra::*;
use flag_algebra::flags::Graph;

pub fn main() {
   // Work on the graphs of size 3.
   let basis = Basis::new(3);

   // Define useful flags.
   let k3 = flag(&Graph::new(3, &[(0, 1), (1, 2), (2, 0)])); // Triangle
   let e3 = flag(&Graph::new(3, &[])); // Independent set of size 3

   // Definition of the optimization problem.
   let pb = Problem::<i64, _> {
       // Constraints
       ineqs: vec![total_sum_is_one(basis), flags_are_nonnegative(basis)],
       // Use all relevant Cauchy-Schwarz inequalities.
       cs: basis.all_cs(),
       // Minimize density of triangle plus density of independent of size 3.
       obj: k3 + e3,
   };

   // Write the correspondind SDP program in "goodman.sdpa".
   // This program can then be solved by CSDP. The answer would be 0.25.
   pb.write_sdpa("goodman").unwrap();
}
```
## Features
This library can currently do the following.
* Generate list of flags from scratch.
* Generate flag algebra operators and memoize them in files.
* Compute in the flag algebra (multiplication, unlabeling) and add user-defined vectors.
* Define, manipulate or amplify flag inequalities (for instance by multiplying an inequality by all flags).
* Write problem in .spda format or directly run the CSDP solver.
* Automatically eliminate unnecessary constraints (in a naive way).
* It is generic:
defining new specific class/subclass of flags boils down to implementing a Rust Trait.
* Output flags, problems or certificates as html pages
in (hopefully) human-readable format (provided that it has a reasonnable size).

## Supported flags
This library is generic.
To use a kind combinatorial objects as flags (e.g. graphs), it suffices to
implement the [Flag](trait.Flag.html) trait for the corresponding Rust datatype.

Currently, [Flag](trait.Flag.html) is implemented for [Graphs](flags/struct.Graph.html),
[Digraphs](flags/struct.Digraph.html) and [edge-colored graphs](flags/struct.CGraph.html)
with some fixed number of colors.

Beside implementing directly [Flag](trait.Flag.html) for your own types, two mechanisms help
to define flag classes based on an existing flag class `F`.
* The [Colored](flags/struct.Colored.html) structure for defining vertex-colored flags.
If `N` is an integer identifier, `Colored<F, N>` is the type for flags of type `F`
where the vertices are further colored in `N` different colors.
`Colored<F, N>` automatically implement `Flag` when `F` does.
* The [Subclass](struct.SubClass.html) structure and
the [SubFlag](trait.SubFlag.html) for classes that are subsets
of already defined classes.
This is usefull for instance for computing in triangle-free graphs flag algebra
without considering other graphs.

License: GPL-3.0

Commit message:

Update version * Added colored flags * Improved html reports * Added functions to reduce a solution by iteration * Lowered trait bound on the used field in flag algebra operators * Slightly optimized the flatmatrix data structure for extensions * Update flag interface * Change type in Cauchy-Schwarz matrices from u64 to u32 as it is way enough and it reduces file size * Updated dependencies

README.md, after:

# flag-algebra

A generic implementation of
[flag algebras](http://people.cs.uchicago.edu/~razborov/files/flag.pdf).

Flag algebras is a framework used to produce computer-assisted proofs of some inequalities in combinatorics, relying on Semi-Definite Programming.

## Example

```rust
// Proving that in any graph, at least 1/4 of the triples
// are triangles or independent sets.
use flag_algebra::*;
use flag_algebra::flags::Graph;

pub fn main() {
   // Work on the graphs of size 3.
   let basis = Basis::new(3);

   // Define useful flags.
   let k3 = flag(&Graph::new(3, &[(0, 1), (1, 2), (2, 0)])); // Triangle
   let e3 = flag(&Graph::new(3, &[])); // Independent set of size 3

   // Definition of the optimization problem.
   let pb = Problem::<i64, _> {
       // Constraints
       ineqs: vec![total_sum_is_one(basis), flags_are_nonnegative(basis)],
       // Use all relevant Cauchy-Schwarz inequalities.
       cs: basis.all_cs(),
       // Minimize density of triangle plus density of independent of size 3.
       obj: k3 + e3,
   };

   // Write the correspondind SDP program in "goodman.sdpa".
   // This program can then be solved by CSDP. The answer would be 0.25.
   pb.write_sdpa("goodman").unwrap();
}
```
## Features
This library can currently do the following.
* Generate list of flags from scratch.
* Generate flag algebra operators and memoize them in files.
* Compute in the flag algebra (multiplication, unlabeling) and add user-defined vectors.
* Define, manipulate or amplify flag inequalities (for instance by multiplying an inequality by all flags).
* Write problem in .spda format or directly run the CSDP solver.
* Automatically eliminate unnecessary constraints (in a naive way).
* It is generic:
defining new specific class/subclass of flags boils down to implementing a Rust Trait.
* Output flags, problems or certificates as html pages
in (hopefully) human-readable format (provided that it has a reasonnable size).

## Supported flags
This library is generic.
To use a kind combinatorial objects as flags (e.g. graphs), it suffices to
implement the [Flag](trait.Flag.html) trait for the corresponding Rust datatype.

Currently, [Flag](trait.Flag.html) is implemented for [Graphs](struct@flags::Graph),
[Digraphs](struct@flags::Digraph) and [edge-colored graphs](struct@flags::CGraph)
with some fixed number of colors.

Beside implementing directly [Flag] for your own types, two mechanisms help
to define flag classes based on an existing flag class `F`.
* The [Colored](struct@flags::Colored) structure for defining vertex-colored flags.
If `N` is an integer identifier, `Colored<F, N>` is the type for flags of type `F`
where the vertices are further colored in `N` different colors.
`Colored<F, N>` automatically implement `Flag` when `F` does.
* The [SubClass] structure and
the [SubFlag] for classes that are subsets
of already defined classes.
This is usefull for instance for computing in triangle-free graphs flag algebra
without considering other graphs.
See the documentation page of [SubFlag] for more details.

## Expressing elements of a flag algebra
See [Type], [Basis] and [QFlag].

The `Type<F:Flag>` structure identifies a
"type" σ in the sense of flag algebras (i.e. a completely labeled flag)
is represented by an object.
The `Basis<F:Flag>` structure corresponds to a couple (n, σ)
and identifies the set of σ-flags of size n.
The structure `QFlag`

License: GPL-3.0
